## 07:58:24.2 GMT MONDAY 20 JUNE 2050
The wide angle X-ray/ultraviolet scanner on Dragon Slayer detected a moderately strong pulsed emission in the east pole mountains. It had not been there when that same area had been scanned a few seconds ago. Automatic feature extractors singled out the region and a search-and-identify priority was assigned to the narrow angle scanner, which locked onto the blinking light source in a millisecond and began to record and analyze the pulses in detail.

An occasional pulse of high temperature thermal radiation at the east pole was not unexpected. Fairly often, a chunk of meteoric material would be pulled in by the star's gravity, and as it would approach the star, the extreme gravitational and magnetic fields of the star would rip the rock apart and transform it into a blob of ionized plasma. The hot gas would fall at near relativistic speeds down along the magnetic field lines to impact on the surface in a brilliant explosion of heat and light.

However, these pulses coming from the star were not the fiery blasts from infalling meteors. The regularity of the pulsations triggered a higher priority circuit that kept the narrow angle scanner on the pulsations until they quit several milliseconds later. Low-level judgment circuits evaluated the significance of the periodicity and assigned it a moderately high priority. The narrow angle scanner would return to that site often in its constantly varying scanning routine, but there was nothing there of interest to the humans.