## 22:30:19.3 GMT MONDAY 20 JUNE 2050
The mush was gone, the holding tank stank, and it was time to say goodbye.

"You win---my friend," Clear-Thinker spoke up to the ghostly apparition that had not moved during his long vigil. At that, Clear-Thinker had done better than he had thought he would---six whole turns without moving more than a ripple. Isomorphic exercises had helped to keep his innards from clogging up, but his skin felt as if it would crack if he moved it. He moved---and it didn't crack---so he moved some more; then, with a delighted dance that almost lifted him off the skimmer with its nearly negligible gravity field, he dissolved the crystalline bones that had kept him stationary, grabbed the controls, and flew the "Flying Toilet" back to the main spacecraft.

After a decent meal and some clean-up, Clear-Thinker was back in command of the expedition. It was time to pack up and go. The specialists were still busy taking long-distance pictures of Pierre and were reluctant to leave. However, the supplies were getting low, and at last they too wound down their activities and started to bring their equipment back.

Actually, of course, it was the shipboard computer that handled the motion of the instrument spheres while it monitored the flight paths of the individual fliers. The gravitational self-attraction of the spheres made navigation quite tricky, even when the pilots had reflex velocities that approached the speed of light.

Unfortunately, no one had bothered to inform the computer that the modified X-ray illuminator that had been used to treat Amalita's cancer had been firmly connected to the very large power source that had been used to drive it. Therefore the computer saw nothing wrong with choosing a return path for the illuminator that took it close to the viewport window. As the illuminator, dragging the power supply, passed by the window, the intense gravitational tidal forces from the massive power supply ripped a large jagged canyon out of the three centimeter thick laminated window. Huge chunks of glass as large as mountains fell toward the power supply. They were crushed into powder as they fell, and then disappeared in a flash of light as they impacted the surface of the shell.